In this video we're going to go in and configure maven to support spring rest stocks and there's just
a couple of things that we need to do in this video.
I'm going to cut and paste some things in for us just to speed things up I don't think you guys want
to see me type out every dependency.
So the first thing I can do is grab end the dependency for spring rest stocks and this is going to bring
in the main dependency of this what's going to give us the testing capabilities that we need and want
to point out that this is curated by the Spring Boot team so that we are going to inherit the version
number of that from the parent Palm.
So if I scroll up here to the top remember we are working from the Spring Boot parent POM just like
all the other spring dependencies where we're not explicitly saying version numbers we are going to
be getting that version number from the Spring Boot parent poem.
Now that only brings in the dependency what we need to do is also add in the ASCII Doctor maven plugin
so I'm going to grab that now and let me minimize the compiler plugin and I'm going to put it right
underneath that so let's go through what we're doing.
Bring it up a little bit here and you can see on line one 30 of the Palm.
This is the ASCII Doctor maven plugin that we're bringing in.
We do have to specify the version current versions of 1 5 3 and then on 133 what's going on there as
we are configuring this maven plug in to run in a specific phase so we are giving it a name identification
of generate dash docs and it's going to hook into the Maven phase of prepare package.
So this is going to happen just before maven goes and packages the project.
Now the goal the process ASCII Doc that is a goal a plug in and then there's a couple of configuration
values I'm going to be honest I'm not terribly familiar with this plug in this configuration is right
out of the spring rest docs documentation this is how they say to configure it for use and then finally
the dependencies there you can see that we are bringing in a jar of the spring rest docs ask you Doctor
dependency so that it's going to work in conjunction with this plug in so that that is important.
And then I want to point out on line 1 50 the version number there for spring rest docs.
This is a maven property.
So this property is getting set.
We're not setting it explicitly.
This is being set in the spring boot parent Palm.
So this guy right here what's important about this this is a maven property is being inherited from
the spring boot parent palm and it's also being used for this.
So if you were to go upstream and look at the parent palm ultimately when you find this dependency declared
there's going to be referencing this version number so that is important because we don't want to have
Version 1 spot on version and the other and have the potential for these to get out of sync.
So we definitely want these two to be on the same release versions if you got on different release versions.
It would probably cause you some pretty strange and hard to troubleshoot errors.
So definitely could have there to make sure that these are running on the same thing.
Now the one additional piece that we need to pick up is for the ask your doctor.
So what we need to do for asking Doctor is we need to come up to the main folder and we're going to
create a new directory and we are going to call that ASCII doc.
Just like that.
So this is a default location that is going to be looked for by the ASCII Doctor plugin.
So then we also need to add in a file and we will call this index that a doc like so.
So that's Shaffer ASCII doctor and I have on my clipboard a basic template.
Go ahead and paste that in.
And what this is going to do is remember how we talked about in the introduction here how breast Doc
creates these snippets.
What's gonna happen is that's a process that's going to go in and replace with these snippets.
So these little snippets will get replaced.
And that's what I ask you doctor is going to do so the test documentation is going to go out and generate
snippets and then ask you doctor is going to assemble things into a single document and then ultimately
use this to produce an HDMI document.
So it takes the many little pieces of code snippet and then assembles them into a single document.
Now when you're developing multiple endpoints and a lot of documentation this is where you're going
to be doing a little bit of work to configure things.
Now ask Doctor itself is very very capable and I'm not going to be going into a lot of detail on Ask
ASCII doctor.
You just can't cover everything but ask your doctor does have a lot of capabilities the spring rest
our documentation has a little bit on it but it is a pretty large and robust project so we're just using
some of the capabilities here to assemble our documentation.
The key takeaway that I want you to remember here is that we are going to be using spring rest docs
to create snippets and then this ASCII doctor this index here that is basically going to assemble those
snippets together into a single document and the build process and we'll look at that as we get further
down in the section of how things get assembled because I'm pretty sure we're gonna have to make some
changes here to this but we'll do that in an upcoming video.
So just to quickly recap what we did as we added in the rest docs dependency and then we added in the
ASCII Doctor maven plug in and that's what's going to be running after our test run the tests will generate
snippets and then this this plug in here is going to assemble those snippets into a single document.
So in this configuration is very important.
And if you look at the spring rustic documentation this configuration is directly from there.
So very well laid out and it's pretty straightforward as to what it needs to do.